ah you're lounging by the riverbank not
far from the beach
when you notice something curious the
water in the river suddenly surges
in the direction of the ocean you're
puzzled but there's no time for
confusion
it's one of the signs of an approaching
tsunami
find elevated land right away
keep in mind the water in a creek river
or stream can also move away from the
ocean or sea
it still means a tsunami is going to hit
the area repeated wave surges can also
warn you a tsunami is approaching
if you see unusual swells coming at
regular intervals
it might be the time to evacuate to high
ground
if you're at the ocean shore and see the
water retreat from the beach at
breakneck speed
and leave behind bare sand run away as
fast as you can this sudden outflow is
likely a signal
a tsunami is on the way your life will
depend on how fast you react
if you spot an almost imperceptible rise
in sea level
it can be another sign of an approaching
tsunami
this phenomenon happens in 40 percent of
cases
the incoming water is the first tsunami
wave the next one
way way larger comes in about 10 minutes
if you notice seawater bubbling swirling
or creating bizarre patterns
it's a sure sign a tsunami's coming
while you're sailing there might be
sharks circling around
keep an eye on them if these predators
suddenly leave you alone and head for
deep water
it might mean a hurricane is drawn
closer get back to dry land as fast as
you can and warn others
if you see weirdly shaped trees that
look like the letter j
and grow on a slope the ground under
your feet might be unstable
don't put your life at risk by wandering
around it can provoke a bad landslide
if your hair suddenly stands on end when
you're outside
it can mean a lightning storm is near
head inside immediately
otherwise a lightning bolt can hit you
another sign a lightning strike is
inescapable is a metallic taste in your
mouth
your palms become clammy and you feel
pin pricks
all over your body you have just enough
time to get indoors
or at least stay away from tall objects
an ocean swell up to six feet often
means a hurricane is coming
but remember that this swell can happen
three days before the hurricane arrives
the nearer it is the larger the waves
are in the end
they can reach a height of 15 feet if
during periods of heavy rains
you hear a roaring sound in the distance
it might be a flash flood moving in your
direction
if so you have no time to waste move
away from that place as
fast as you can flash floods are
oftentimes lethal
bees can predict heavy rainstorms these
insects begin to work much harder the
day before it starts raining
be careful if you spot conically shaped
clouds
they mean severe storms but if such a
cloud starts to spin around
immediately get away from that place or
search for shelter
the cloud is transforming into a tornado
on the bright side only warm conical
clouds should worry you
cold ones are totally harmless some bugs
can
feel a storm coming they get ready for
the natural disaster by stopping any
movement whatsoever
that's why if you notice that lots of
insects around you look drowsy
search for shelter if you have a catfish
in your aquarium
pay attention to its behavior scientists
have noticed that these species react to
earth tremors
they become restless when seismic
activity is high
now if for some reason you need to walk
across a frozen lake or river
stay away from gray ice this grayish hue
might mean the ice in that area is very
thin
you can find yourself in the freezing
water in the blink of an eye
do the clouds above your head look like
narrow strips hanging low in the sky
try to leave the area right away or find
some shelter
such a pattern means severe weather most
commonly a tornado is coming closer
if you see large hail stones falling
from the sky but there's no rain
it can't be a sign a tornado is near
if you're at the beach and see wild
choppy waves with ocean debris and
seaweed
stay out of the water this can be a sign
of a strong rip current
it can carry you far away into the ocean
square waves may sound like something
unreal but they do occur it happens when
two different wave
patterns crash into each other this
phenomenon looks awesome
but only if you're watching it from the
shore don't even
think about getting in the water to play
with such waves
in that place there are cross currents
that can easily pull
under the water even a skilled swimmer
once you see a spectacular wall cloud
which can stretch for up to five miles
that's your cue to spring into action in
the best case scenario
it's just a severe storm coming but if
the wall cloud begins to move in a
circle
it's a sure sign of a tornado
you can figure out how close a
thunderstorm is by measuring the time
between
spotting the lightning and hearing the
thunder every five seconds
equals one mile if you see smelly green
covering on a lake or sea surface
stay away from the water it can be a
hazardous algal bloom
you won't be able to tell whether it's
toxic at first sight
so better steer clear of it all together
green skies scream danger when they
occur
it usually means a thunderstorm hail
storm or even tornado
is somewhere nearby the unique color
appears when yellow sun rays get mixed
with the blue light
coming from storm clouds to avoid a tree
unexpectedly toppling over while you're
under it
examine its trunk if you spot large
patches without bark or
gaping holes the wood is most likely
weak and rotten
the tree can collapse if the wind is
more powerful than usual
if the air outside starts to smell a bit
like chlorine
a thunderstorm with heavy rain is on the
way the unpleasant odor comes from the
ozone
created by chemical reactions occurring
during a thunderstorm
toads can predict earthquakes when they
feel a bad earthquake is coming
they leave their homes these animals can
even stop mating during breeding season
while walking across a snow field in the
mountains listen to the sound your feet
make
if the sound is kind of hollow check
whether there are
cracks around your footprints if so the
chances
are an avalanche is about to happen
if you're out in the wild pay attention
to the water in creeks
streams and rivers if it's quickly
falling or
rising this might be a sign of a nearing
landslide
and if you see the water turns muddy
don't wait for more evidence
get out of the area immediately
if you live in an old house it's normal
to have some cracks in your interior
walls
but if you notice the widening of old
fractures
or appearance of new ones it should
serve as an alarm bell
if you live in an area with loads of
limestone new cracks can mean
a sinkhole is about to open next to your
house
if you're in an area near an active
volcano try to be super perceptive
if you feel even the tiniest earth
tremors a volcanic eruption might happen
soon
if you notice tree leaves wilt all of a
sudden it might be because of an
upcoming storm
before extreme weather arrives the air
usually becomes more humid
and this dampness makes the leaves droop
and if you hear a high-speed train
approaching but there's no railway in
sight
it might be a tornado coming closer it
can also sound like the deafening roar
of an airplane taking off
this sound is created by the wind
whirling at the core of the tornado
at mind-boggling speeds got all that
good